---
title: Version 4.0.0
author: Trygve Lie
authorURL: https://github.com/trygve-lie/
---

We are very happy to release version 4.0.0 of Podium. Both `@podium/layout` and
`@podium/podlet` are now available as version 4.0.0.

This release contain the following changes:

### JSON Schema

The manifest which defines the contract between Layouts and Podlets are now
defined as a [JSON Schema](https://github.com/podium-lib/schemas/blob/master/lib/manifest.schema.json). The main reason for this is to cater for implementations
in other languages than node.js.

### Document template

This version introduces a concept we call a document template. A document
template is intended to hold the part which the surrounding  `<HTML>`, `<HEAD>`
and `<BODY>` of where one will place content.

Document templates can be custom made and plugged into both Layouts and Podlets
with the intent of making it possible to develop on Podlets in isolation with
the same constraints it will have when included in a Layout.

Please see the [document template](/docs/next/api/document) section for further
info.

### HTTP framework free

Originally Podium was bound to Express.js but with this release Podium is 100%
HTTP framework free. It is fully possible to use Podium with plain node.js http
server module.

Though; Express.js is first class in Podium making it possible to use Podium in
an Express.js server without any more than the core modules.

Beside supporting Express.js, Hapi and Fastify are supported through plugins by
the Podium project.

Support for Serverless / cloud functions are on the road map.

### Multiple assets support

Previously one could only set one reference to JavaScript and CSS assets by the
`.js()` and `.css()` methods in `@podium/podlet`.

These does now support being called multiple times to set multiple assets.

The `.js()` method has also got a `type` attribute making it possible to flag
what type of JavaScript file it is.

### Layout assets

The `@podium/layout` module now has a `.js()` and `.css()` method which work the
same way as in `@podium/podlet` but with the intent to be able to set assets
which is related to the Layout.

### HttpIncoming replaces context argument

During the rewrite to become HTTP framework free, a `HttpIncoming` object which
is passed between the different parts in Podium has been introduced.

You can read more about [`HttpIncoming` and its role here](/docs/next/api/incoming).

Due to this, the `.client.fetch()` and `.client.stream()` methods in
`@podium/layout` prefer that `HttpIncoming` is passed in as first argument
instead of the context.

In other words; previously one would do like this:

```js
app.get('/', (req, res) => {
    const ctx = res.locals.podium.context;
    const content = await podlet.fetch(ctx);
    ...
});
```

This will still work until Podium version 5 but now one should do like this:

```js
app.get('/', (req, res) => {
    const incoming = res.locals.podium;
    const content = await podlet.fetch(incoming);
    ...
});
```
